Task 07 - Interview Answers 
---------------------------------

1. A class that defines properties and methods. An object instance created from that class.

Ex: "BankAccount" is class, while Ahmed's bank account is object.


2. Encapsulation means hiding internal data and allowing access only through controlled methods.

Ex: In the Bank Account System, the balance is changed only through Deposit() and Withdraw() methods.


3. If the balance were public, anyone could change it directly, to invalid value like a negative balance.

Using methods ensures all business rules are validated before changing the balance.


4. A field stores data directly inside a class. A property provides controlled access to that data using get and set.

Properties are safer because validation can be added.


5. Constructors initialize objects when they are created.

They allow us to assign default values or require important information during object creation.


6. A service class contains the application's business logic.

In my project,"BankService" handles account creation, deposits, withdrawals, transfers, and account searches.


7. A large Main method becomes difficult to read, test, and maintain.

Instead, responsibilities should be divided into methods and classes.


8. An array has a fixed size after creation but List can grow or shrink dynamically and provides many useful methods like Add() and Remove().


9. Dictionary is used when we need fast lookup using a key.

Ex: Counting the frequency of numbers.


10. LINQ is used to query and manipulate collections in a simple and readable way allows filtering, sorting, grouping, and selecting data.


11. Where filters data. Select transforms data into another form.
Ex:

students.Where(s => s.Age > 18);
students.Select(s => s.Name);


12. GroupBy groups items that have the same value.

Ex: Group employees by department.


13. Skip ignores a number of records. Take returns a specified number of records.


14. A primary key uniquely identifies each record in a table can not be repeated.

Ex: CustomerId.


15. A foreign key links one table to another. It creates relationships between related data.


16. One record in one table can be related to many records in another table.

Ex: One customer can have many bank accounts.


17. A JOIN combines data from multiple tables based on a related column.


18. A table exists in the database. An entity is the class in the application that represents that table in Models.

Ex: Customer class represents the Customers table.


19. GitHub stores project code online, tracks changes using Git, and makes collaboration easier.


20. A good README explains the project, features, technologies used, project structure, and how to run the application helps understand project quickly.


21. Multiple commits show the project's progress and make it easier to track changes or fix mistakes.


22. Professional delivery makes the project easier to review and understand.

Using clean code, meaningful commit messages, documentation, and organized folders creates a better impression during interviews and code reviews.