# Task 08 - EF Core Interview Questions & Answers

1-DbContext is the primary class in Entity Framework Core that manages the connection between the application and the database. It tracks entity changes, executes database queries, and saves modifications. 
In my project, AppDbContext contains all DbSet properties and manages CRUD operations for Students, Instructors, TrainingTracks, Enrollments, and Payments.


2-A DbSet represents a collection of entities of a specific type. Each DbSet is mapped to a database table, allowing Entity Framework Core to perform CRUD operations.

Example: public DbSet<Student> Students { get; set; }
This maps the Student entity to the Students table.


3-A migration records changes made to the EF Core model and applies those changes to the database schema. 
It keeps the database synchronized with the application's entity classes without manually writing SQL scripts.


4-An Entity represents a database table and is managed by Entity Framework Core.
A DTO (Data Transfer Object) is used to transfer only the required data between the API and the client. 
DTOs improve security, reduce response size, and prevent exposing internal database structures.


5-Returning EF entities directly may expose unnecessary fields, navigation properties, and internal implementation details. 
It can also cause circular reference problems during JSON serialization. Using DTOs gives better control over the API response.


6-A foreign key is a column that references the primary key of another table. 
It establishes relationships between tables and enforces referential integrity.

Example: Enrollment.StudentId → Student.StudentId


7-A Student can enroll in many TrainingTracks, and a TrainingTrack can contain many Students. 
This many-to-many relationship is implemented using the Enrollment entity, which stores additional business information such as enrollment date, status, progress percentage, and final result.


8-Enrollment contains additional business data beyond just foreign keys, including enrollment status, enrollment date, progress percentage, and final result. 
Since automatic many-to-many relationships cannot store extra attributes, a separate Enrollment entity is required.


9-Include() is used to eagerly load related entities when querying the database.

Example:
_context.Enrollments
    .Include(e => e.Student)
    .Include(e => e.TrainingTrack);

I used Include when I needed related data before applying business logic or loading navigation properties.


10-Select() projects database entities into DTOs containing only the required fields. 
This improves performance, reduces network traffic, and avoids returning unnecessary data.


11-Pagination divides large datasets into smaller pages using Skip() and Take(). 
It improves performance, reduces response size, and provides a better user experience.


12-Before creating a new enrollment, I checked whether the student already had an active enrollment in the same training track using AnyAsync(). 
If an active enrollment existed, the API returned a Bad Request response.


13-Before creating an enrollment, I counted the current number of enrollments for the selected training track and compared it with the track's capacity. 
If the capacity had been reached, the API rejected the request.


14-I validated that the payment amount was greater than zero and confirmed that the referenced enrollment existed before creating a payment. 
Invalid requests returned appropriate HTTP status codes.


15-Soft delete marks a record as deleted by setting fields such as IsDeleted and DeletedAt instead of physically removing it from the database. 
This preserves historical data and allows recovery or auditing if needed.


16-A local database runs on the developer's own machine and is mainly used during development and testing. 
A remote database is hosted on a server or cloud environment and is shared by deployed applications and multiple users.


17-I stored the production connection string in configuration files or environment variables rather than hardcoding it. 
The application reads the connection string from the configuration at startup.


18-Connection strings may contain sensitive information such as server names, usernames, and passwords. 
Publishing them on GitHub creates a security risk. Instead, secrets should be stored using environment variables, user secrets during development, or secure secret management services.


19-One of the most challenging issues was a circular JSON serialization error caused by Entity Framework navigation properties referencing each other. 
I resolved it by returning DTOs instead of EF entities and using Select() projections to shape the API responses.


20-I would add JWT authentication and role-based authorization, implement repository and unit-of-work patterns, introduce logging with Serilog, 
add FluentValidation for request validation, write unit and integration tests, improve reporting endpoints, and deploy the API to a cloud platform using a CI/CD pipeline.